# aqsr
R Package for Accessing EPA AQS data

This package provides an R interface for the EPA Air Quality System (AQS) API. Information about the API, including Terms of Service, is available at https://aqs.epa.gov/aqsweb/documents/data_api.html.


### Creating a User Key

The AQS API requires an email address and key for all queries. The key is not used for authentication (as in a password), but it is used for identification. Sign-up using the `aqs_signup()` function, and your key phrase will be emailed.

Once an email address and key are registered, assign them to a list in the working environment using `create_user()`. For example:
```
my_user <- create_user(email="myemail@mydomain",
                    key="mykeyhere")
```
Alternatively, the email address and key can be stored as environment variables as `AQS_EMAIL` and `AQS_KEY`, respectively, to avoid directly storing the values in code that might be part of a public repository. Calling `create_user()` without any argument will then read from these values. Care should still be taken to avoid storing the resulting object in a public repository.

All functions for requesting data from the API require that the list generated by `create_user()` be provided in the `aqs_user` argument.

### Requesting Data

The primary functions for requesting measurements stored in the AQS database are `aqs_annualData()`, `aqs_dailyData()`, and `aqs_sampleData()`. Variations of each function exist for queries targeting a specific criteria, e.g. `aqs_annualData_byState()`.  The underlying function that queries the API is `aqs_get()`, which can be called directly if desired.


A full list of services provided by the AQS API can be accessed by calling `list_services()`. These services include `sampleData`, `signup`, `list`, and `metaData`, among others.  The endpoints for each service are listed in `list_endpoints()`, and the variables required for each endpoint are listed in `list_vars()`. For example:

```
# List all services
list_services() 
# List endpoints for "dailyData" service
list_endpoints(service="dailyData") 
# List variables needed for obtaining data using the  "byCounty" endpoint
list_vars(endpoint="byCounty") 
```

Information on parameter codes and required input for defining data requests can be obtained from the API using `aqs_list()`, `aqs_list_parameters()`, and the related functions.







